And in production to the Song of Solomon, also known as Canticles, King Solomon wrote this poetic book in Jerusalem.
It was composed some time after the temple was built.
Of the many songs composed by Solomon, this is considered his greatest.
The main character is the Shulamite girl.
Other characters included in this drama are the Shulamite's brothers, the shepherd,
Solomon, the daughters of Jerusalem or ladies of Solomon's court, and the daughters of Zion or women of Jerusalem.
The Song is presented through a series of conversations in which the speakers are constantly changing.
Although the characters speaking are not named, they can be identified by what they say or what is said to them.
The Song of Solomon consists of eight chapters.
Chapters 1 and 2 contain events that take place near the town of Shunam, which was also called Shulam.
The Shulamite girl is brought into Solomon's camp, but she resists his advances and declares that she can love only her dear shepherd.
Did you know Shunam was the birthplace of David's nurse Abishag, and the place where the prophet Elijah often stayed with a family.
Chapters 3 to 8 describe events that take place in Jerusalem.
Solomon returns to his court, taking the Shulamite with him in an effort to impress her.
The Shulamite tells the daughters of Jerusalem or ladies of Solomon's court not to arouse love in her for Solomon.
The shepherd follows the Shulamite to Jerusalem and strengthens her with warm expressions of endearment.
We should keep in mind the ancient eastern setting of this song in order to appreciate the poetic expressions of endearment that may seem unusual today.
The shepherd compares the Shulamite's eyes to those of a dove, her hair to a flock of goats, and her cheeks to a segment of pomegranate.
Solomon approaches her again with flattering words, but she continues to reject his advances.
In chapter 8, the Shulamite girl returns to her home.
Having proved her exclusive devotion, she is reunited with her dear shepherd.
Their unfailing love is described as the flame of jaw because Jehovah is the originator of true love.
As you read this book, note the chaseness of the Shulamite girl, her loyalty to the shepherd, and how true love originates with Jehovah, whose sovereignty is based on love.